OK so in this video we're going to use star but rather than adding it as a parameter to a function definition
we're going to see how we can use it as an argument when we actually execute a function.
So it will make more sense with an example as always.
But what it allows us to do when we pass a star as an argument to a function it will unpack values what
does unpack mean in this case.
Let's take a look at some code.
So here I have this function that we've been working with some all values takes in Star args as a parameter.
Again we call it names instead.
All it does is it has a total variable loops through everything in args.
So if we can have one number or 1000 numbers being passed in and it adds some to a total and then it
prints total rather than returning it.
Even though printing is not anywhere near as useful as returning It's just easier for for now.
So I don't have to type print all the time.
So right now to execute this we would do something like one comma 30 comma to come a five or six.
Right.
And if we executed we go Python 3.
I called this file unpacking up why we get the song.
So that's great but what if I had a list of numbers in this case let's say this list right here.
One two three four five six and I'll just call this Nomes.
What if I wanted to call sum all values and I wanted Nomes to be passed in.
So I want these numbers and this is actually common when you know we might consecutive numbers like
this.
Definitely not common.
But you have a list of things and you want to unpack them split them apart and send it to a function
that is expecting individual arguments.
This function is not written expecting expecting a list.
And in fact let's just take a look here what happens if I pass in numbers directly.
What do you think will happen.
We get an error and it says unsupported operand type for plus equals int and list.
So to unpack what's happening here let's just print out the value of args at the very beginning before
we even hit any errors.
And let's rerun it.
Here is what args looks like.
It's a tuple because remember it's always a tuple.
It collects everything that's been passed in as an argument and puts him at a tuple.
But in this case only one item was passed in.
So it's a one item long tuple.
Remember in the last video we saw that Python will add a comma a trailing comma.
If it's a one item long tuple just to distinguish it from regular Prendes.
So this doesn't work for us because what happens is totalistic zero that's fine for Nahm in args.
Well there's one thing in args.
So one time through numb is going to be equal to a list.
So we're going to try to take total which is zero and integer and plus equals an entire list which is
not going to work.
OK.
So you might think What if instead of a list Nom's was a tuple could we pass that in directly some all
values with a tuple.
What happens now.
We get the same problem except rather than an int and list discrepancy it's an end and tuple because
this is what args looks like.
It's a tuple with one item in it which just happens to be another tuple.
Same problem as before.
So what we actually need is a way to say OK take everything in this tuple or take everything in this
list and turn them into individual arguments that we pass into this function.
And it's nice and easy.
This is where the star comes in.
It just looks like this star numbs and it works both with tuples and duelists.
But I'll show you now we run this.
This is what args looks like and the result we get printed out is 21.
So by adding that star right there it basically says Take this collection this list or in this case
this tuple and go through it and pass each one of these in each element or each item as a separate argument.
So then start args collects all of these instead of one tuple.
So one was sent to a set three and so on.
Same thing if we had a list instead we we'll get the exact same value.
Just to show you.
There we go.
We get 21 again.
So it also passes them in individually.
So this is called unpacking.
Hopefully you can see why it's called unpacking.
We are taking a collection and chopping it up unpacking it into individual components and passing them
each through.
So very useful.
A lot of times we're working with lists or tuples and we need to split them up to pass them into functions.